README.md, before:

# SwiftGenPlugin

SwiftGen code generation for Swift packages that works on any machine. No installation required.

Uses the remote build tool plugin [SE-0325](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/main/proposals/0325-swiftpm-additional-plugin-apis.md) as demonstrated by [apple/swift-package-manager](https://github.com/apple/swift-package-manager/tree/main/Fixtures/Miscellaneous/Plugins/MyBinaryToolPlugin) and [abertelrud/swiftpm-buildtool-plugin-examples](https://github.com/abertelrud/swiftpm-buildtool-plugin-examples).

## Attention

Until my [PR to SwiftGen](https://github.com/SwiftGen/SwiftGen/pull/926) is merged the SwiftGen binary for this plugin is pulled from my [fork of SwiftGen](https://github.com/nicorichard/SwiftGen/).

## Usage

### Adding the plugin

Add the dependency to your `Package.swift` and include the plugin on any targets for which you would like it to run

```swift
    dependencies: [
        .package(url: "https://github.com/nicorichard/SwiftGenPlugin", exact: "6.5.1")
    ],
    targets: [
        .target(
            name: "YourTargetName",
            dependencies: [],
            plugins: [
                .plugin(name: "SwiftGenPlugin", package: "SwiftGenPlugin")
            ]
        )
    ]
```

### Add a SwiftGen config

Add a `swiftgen.yml` file to your project following the [configuration file format](https://github.com/SwiftGen/SwiftGen/blob/stable/Documentation/ConfigFile.md) and prefixing your output paths with `${DERIVED_SOURCES_DIR}/`

Take a look at this repository's [swiftgen.yml](./swiftgen.yml) for an example.

## Warning

In the event that you change a generated file's name or stop generating a file it will not be automatically removed from your application's Derived Data.
e.g. If I change the name of my generated SwiftGen file, both the old file and the new will be present in the generated outputs.
The files can be manually removed from the file system or cleared via `Clear Package Caches`.

#### Help me improve this
Can a better strategy be implemented which allows for the cleanup of old files?
If you know the answer to this question please open an issue, pull request, or [message me](https://github.com/nicorichard).

### Supporting multiple targets

The plugin offers two options for the `swiftgen.yml` file to support multiple-target packages. If you are only concerned with one target there is no difference between the two options.

1. Add a `swiftgen.yml` ([Example](swiftgen.yml)) to the root of your package (same folder as `Package.swift`), and swiftgen will be run **for all targets which support the plugin**
2. Add a `swiftgen.yml` ([Example](swiftgen.yml)) to your target's sources, swiftgen will be run for only this target

Both 1 & 2 can be combined if desired. However, if there is any duplicate files between the two methods the more specific target files will be used (method #2).

Commit message:

Improve readme for this change

README.md, after:

# SwiftGenPlugin

SwiftGen code generation for Swift packages that works on any machine. No installation required.

Uses the remote build tool plugin [SE-0325](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/main/proposals/0325-swiftpm-additional-plugin-apis.md) as demonstrated by [apple/swift-package-manager](https://github.com/apple/swift-package-manager/tree/main/Fixtures/Miscellaneous/Plugins/MyBinaryToolPlugin) and [abertelrud/swiftpm-buildtool-plugin-examples](https://github.com/abertelrud/swiftpm-buildtool-plugin-examples).

## Attention

Until my [PR to SwiftGen](https://github.com/SwiftGen/SwiftGen/pull/926) is merged, the SwiftGen binary for this plugin is pulled from my [fork of SwiftGen](https://github.com/nicorichard/SwiftGen/).

## Usage

### Adding The Plugin

Add the dependency to your `Package.swift` and include the plugin on any targets for which you would like it to run

```swift
    dependencies: [
        .package(url: "https://github.com/nicorichard/SwiftGenPlugin", exact: "6.5.1")
    ],
    targets: [
        .target(
            name: "YourTargetName",
            dependencies: [],
            plugins: [
                .plugin(name: "SwiftGenPlugin", package: "SwiftGenPlugin")
            ]
        )
    ]
```

### Add a SwiftGen config

Add a `swiftgen.yml` file to your project following the [configuration file format](https://github.com/SwiftGen/SwiftGen/blob/stable/Documentation/ConfigFile.md) and prefixing your output paths with `${DERIVED_SOURCES_DIR}/`

Take a look at this repository's [swiftgen.yml](./swiftgen.yml) for an example.

### Supporting Multiple Targets

The plugin offers two options for the `swiftgen.yml` file to support multiple-target packages. If you are only concerned with one target there is no difference between the two options.

1. Add a `swiftgen.yml` ([Example](swiftgen.yml)) to the root of your package (same folder as `Package.swift`), and swiftgen will be run **for all targets which support the plugin**
2. Add a `swiftgen.yml` ([Example](swiftgen.yml)) to your target's sources, swiftgen will be run for only this target

Both 1 & 2 can be combined if desired. However, if there is any duplicate files between the two methods the more specific target files will be used (method #2).

## Known Issues

- Transitive dependencies of your package do not run the build tool. [Swift Forums Discussion](https://forums.swift.org/t/plugin-command-not-running-when-package-is-indirectly-included-in-xcode-project/57168).
  - [Minimal Reproducible Example](https://github.com/nicorichard/PluginNotRunning)
